# LC209 - Minimum Size Subarray Sum [unpublished]

In this problem, we have to find the length of the smallest contiguous subarray, which has a sum greater than `target`. The naive approach of computing every subset and keeping track of the smallest length one, which has a sum of at least `target` is qualitatively less efficient than the approaches we will discuss. We will discuss two approaches to solve this problem, the first using the sliding window technique and the other using binary search.

## Approach 1 - Sliding Window

### Solution Description

A sliding window is a region of an array bound by a left pointer and a right pointer. We slide the window by incrementing the left and right pointers. We denote the ends of the window as `l` and `r`. The ends of the window are initially set to 0. We have a loop wherein `r` is incremented in each iteration. Once `r` is incremented, `l` is maximally increased, subject to the constraint that the window's sum is greater than, or equal to `target`. By increasing `l` in this manner, we ensure that we consider the smallest length contiguous subarray, which meets the target sum, for each `r`. At this point, if the length of the window is less than the stored minimum window length `minLen`, then `minLen` is updated. Once the loop is complete, the algorithm returns 0 if there was no window with a sum greater than, or equal to `target`, i.e. if `minLen` is unchanged from the impossible (greater than any valid nums length) initialisation value. Otherwise, `minLen` is returned.

### Code (Java)

```java
class Solution 
{
    public int minSubArrayLen(int target, int[] nums) 
    {
        int minLen = Integer.MAX_VALUE;
        int l = 0; // left pointer of the sliding window
        int r = 0; // right pointer of the sliding window
        int winSum = 0;
        while (r < nums.length)
        {
            winSum += nums[r];

            // minimise size of window for current r
            while (winSum - nums[l] >= target)
            {
                winSum -= nums[l];
                l++;
            }

            // check if the current window is the smallest
            // contiguous subarray, which meets the
            // target sum, that has been encountered.
            if (winSum >= target && r - l + 1 < minLen)
            {
                minLen = r - l + 1;
            }
            r++;
        }
        return minLen == Integer.MAX_VALUE ? 0 : minLen;
    }
}
```

### Time and Space Complexity

Let n be the length of nums. The outer loop runs n times. The inner loop runs no more than n times, as each iteration corresponds to incrementing the left pointer, which cannot be incremented more than n times. Not considering the inner loop, the operations of an iteration run in constant time. The operations of the inner loop also run in constant time. Therefore, the time complexity is $O(n)$. The pointers take up constant space, so with no other space used, the space complexity is $O(1)$.

## Approach 2 - Binary Search

### Solution Description

### Code (Java)

#### Time and Space Complexity